Explanation of "The Quantum vacuum as the origin of the speed of light."

Okay.

I'm going to do my best with this, but it would be better if I were standing there so you could ask questions when I don't explain something well. Bear with me.

To understand this, the first step is to look at how most of the light we see is generated.

You know that light is made up of photons. These are little "chunks" of electromagnetic energy. They are released when electrons (or other fermions, of which electrons are a type) decrease in energy. That energy radiates away in the form of photons of specific energy that is precisely identical to the energy decrease of the electrons. Note that when I say "light" I mean any type of photon, from the hottest gamma radiation to the fattest, most ineffectual radio waves. I'm just using light as a shorthand, because they all act the same way, and all get their energy from the equal decrease in energy of some fermion, somewhere.

When these photons interact with an electron, they increase it's energy, and disappear. As the electron releases energy, another photon appears. The energy of the photon is exactly the same as the energy increase or decrease of the electron.


Alright. That's enough about photon/electron energy for now.

Next:  Some decades ago (maybe well over a century by now), it was noticed that,  when electrical current was passed through a wire, a magnetic field was generated that extended a measurable distance away from the wire. This magnetic field could actually induce a current of electricity in a second wire at a significant distance from the first wire. It was theorized that the magnetic field was supported by the electrons in the air molecules momentarily lining up in a coincident way because of the force generated by the movement of the electrons in the wire. (This, by the way, is how wireless phone chargers transmit charge.) 

Then it was discovered that the magnetic field would be generated in total vacuum, even with no electrons present to carry the charge to another wire. The size of the magnetic field that can pass across a total vacuum was found to be constant, for a given type of wire and amount of current. This is called vacuum permeability, and has been understood to be one of the fundamental constants of our universe.

Also: Around the time some people were messing around with magnetism, other people were fooling around with a weird phenomenon they called capacitance. It has to do with the idea that, if "enough" single-point charges of electricity (which we now call electrons) are forced or allowed to build up on one side of a gap which contains a type of semi-insulating fluid (or solid, it turns out), and the other side of the gap has had its electrons drained away by some force, the electrons on the electron-heavy side will jump across to the electron-light side. Some times the elctrons will just trickle across, and sometimes they jump all at once. It seems to depend on how fast the electrons are drained away from the low side, and what the insulating properties of the fluid are.

Devices that work like this are called capacitors. Depending on how they are made, they can act as filters for different wavelengths of electricity (band-pass filters), electricity storage devices, directional gates for current flow (rectifiers), and any number of other useful tools, including vacuum tubes and transistors, which are nothing but collections of capacitors of different properties that can switch on or off as different events happen in the environment.

It was assumed that the electrons were able to jump the gap in a capacitor based on the electronic (dielectric) properties of the substance in the gap. Some things just hold on to their own electrons better than others and don't allow flow as easily. This is the definition of the difference between a conductor and a non-conductor. Semiconductors are just a sort of physics quibbling. If you force enough electrons to one side of a gap, they will flow through anything, no matter how well it holds on to electrons.

But, once again, it was found that electrons would jump the gap even if it was made of total vacuum. No electrons at all to flow across. The electrical charges would somehow leap across (these charges being made of electrons, a very real physical thing) without crossing through any medium. And, again, it turns out that the ability of electrical charge to leap across a gap of nothing at all, based solely on the width of the gap and amount of charge (numbers of electrons) present on one side of the gap compared to the other (and how do they know???) seems to be a fundamental constant of the universe.

Finally, in our discussion of unexplained physical phenomena from the 1800's: light. Light seems to flow across a vacuum at a speed that is totally invariant, no matter what. Once a "photon" has been produced by decrease in the energy of an electron, it flows until its energy is absorbed by another electron, and the photon disappears. The speed at which light moves in a vacuum seems to be yet another fundamental constant of our universe.


Now, to the piece of the puzzle that this paper addresses. Over the last century or so, people found that reactions involving elementary particles could be tracked, one particle at a time, by the paths they trace in a cloud chamber. One by one, physicists worked with particles and particle accelerators and atom smashers of larger and larger sizes until they beat pretty much all of the larger sub-atomic particles out the atoms. Then they worked on mathematical models that would explain how they all fit together and worked when the atoms were whole, and as they did out in the real universe. 

However.

They did not find anything to explain why or how the three forces/constants we mentioned above (as well as some others that are not part of this story) come about. The general consensus was that they "were properties of the universe". Didn't stop anyone from using lots of math to try to explain them, but nothing really worked.

As a result of all the math, though, some other things were noticed. In one of the ideas that explained a lot of stuff, called quantum electrodynamics (thought up by Richard Feynmann), an odd result was predicted. He said that, based on the way the numbers come out that did a really good job of explaining many normal electron reactions at the atomic level, if you removed all of the matter from a particular space -- no electron, protons, neutrons, etc. -- a pure vacuum, in other words -- you should be able to see "fermion pairs" arising out of pure nothingness, then annihilating each other giving back exactly the amount of energy that was required to create them in the first place. The physicists have decided to call this "quantum vacuum".

Well, it took a while for anyone to figure out how to measure (and, frankly, it still hasn't been measured very well, but it seems that something shows up when all the other matter gets out of the way), but the fermion pairs (electron/anti-electron pairs) seem to be there.

In this paper, what the authors are saying is that the rate at which fermion pairs show up in a vacuum is what controls and explains vacuum permittivity, vacuum permeability, and the speed of light; and that, furthermore, the rate of fermion appearance and disappearance is an average,subject to small fluctuations; thus, so are the speed of light, and the other constants as well. And they have proposed experiments to test their ideas. 

The simple fact is, though, that this neatly and completely explains all three of these physical constants. As the fermions appear and become "polarized" by the presence of elctrical flow and charge, they provide a conduit for that flow and charge through a vacuum that precisely describes the numbers of fermions appearing and disappearing in any given period of time. And the propagation of light in a vacuum is easily explained as the movement of photons from one fermion to another, giving and gaining energy at exactly a rate proportional to the rate of appearance and disappearance of those fermions (this does not discuss the idea of whether the fermions are there if there are no photons or electrons present to interact with them -- a sort of chicken or egg issue).

So. This is a basic explanation of what's going on in the paper. I hope I've actually explained it well enough.
